Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain an action, adventure,
drama film called “War for the Planet of the
Apes.” Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Years ago, a scientific experiment gone wrong
gave rise to a species of intelligent apes, but it
destroyed most of humanity in the form of the flu.
A new ape civilization lead by Caesar struggled
to coexist with the humans and eventually
resulted in a fight when a rebel ape named Koba
led a vengeful attack against the humans. The
humans were able to send a distress call to a
military base in the North and prompted a
ruthless Colonel with his battalion to be
dispatched and exterminate the apes. Caesar
evaded the Colonel for years and was rumored
to be marshaling a fight from a hidden
base in the woods as the war rages on.
In the present, deep in the woods, a group of
human soldiers, with the help of Koba’s former
subordinates, sneakily finds an ape encampment.
The soldiers launch a sudden bombarding attack
and kill a lot of apes. One of the apes signals
the rest of the ape army for backup, and they
immediately launch a heavy counterattack, wiping
almost all of the soldiers. One of them, Preacher,
survives and tries to call the Colonel for
backup but is caught by the hoard of apes.
Caesar, along with his subordinates, Maurice,
Luca, and Winter, arrive at the encampment,
where they meet the surviving humans. Preacher
recognizes Caesar and tells him that they were
looking for him and thought he was dead. Caesar
explains that it was not him who wanted war, but
his former ally, Koba. Caesar further tells them
that Koba is already dead and he only fought to
protect his tribe. Koba’s former subordinate, Red
Donkey, who was also captured, tells Caesar about
the ruthlessness of the Colonel and threatens
him. This angers the apes, so Caesar commands
Winter to take Red Donkey outside. Caesar lets the
captured soldiers go as a message offering peace
to the Colonel. Winter, however, returns to Caesar
and tells him that Red Donkey managed to escape.
At the lake, Caesar expresses his regrets about
Koba to Maurice, telling him that his actions’
consequences still haunts them. Maurice
comforts Caesar and tells him that no one
could’ve predicted Koba’s rebellion. Shortly
after, Caesar’s son, Blue-Eyes and his friend,
Rocket, arrives home from a long journey.
Blue-eyes tells Caesar that he bears good
news from their travels so Caesar immediately
takes them home to their hidden base at a cave
behind a waterfall. The apes then have a meeting
about their plans. Blue-eyes tells them that they
discovered a new place to call home and that
humans will not be able to follow them there.
This excites the apes but Winter urges them
that they should leave immediately for fear
that the humans may attack. Caesar silences
Winter and agrees to Blue-eyes’ suggestion that
they be more tactful about their next move. Caesar
reassures everyone that they will leave together.
When night falls, Caesar stays vigilant with his
sleeping family. He then notices an unusual green
light passing down the waterfall in front of
him. Curious, Caesar approaches the waterfall
and discovers a rope, telling him that the humans
have invaded them again. Caesar tells Blue-eyes
to stay on guard and protect his family while he
looks for the invading humans. Caesar meets Luca
and notifies him of the attack. Back in the
bedroom, Blue-eyes sees one of the soldiers
entering and beats him to death. Meanwhile,
Caesar manages to ambush one of the soldiers,
but not before the soldier made contact with his
Colonel. The apes hear the Colonel’s response,
telling the soldier that he killed the ape’s
leader. This prompts Caesar to hurry back to
his family, where he meets the Colonel,
who is preparing to escape, eye to eye.
The Colonel realizes that he killed the wrong
ape and looks at their bodies once more.
Caesar follows his gaze, and to his demise, he
sees Blue-eyes and his wife dead. The Colonel
attempts to kill the infuriated ape, but Caesar
dodges the attack. The rest of the apes arrive,
and the Colonel fires to slow them down, and he
escapes. Caesar chases the Colonel on the rope
he was retreating to. As Caesar is about to catch
up, the Colonel pulls his army knife and cuts the
rope. Caesar falls down the river and swims away
to safety, looking at the escaping Colonel once
more with a vengeance. Caesar returns to his room
and mourns with the rest of his friends. To his
comfort, Caesar finds his younger son, Cornelius,
hiding amidst the fight earlier and embraces him.
Due to the attack from last night,
Caesar relocates the entire tribe to the new
place Blue-eyes told them about. However,
Caesar stays to seek vengeance while stalling
the soldiers from catching up to the apes.
The apes embark on their journey while Caesar
makes his way to where the Colonel is stationed.
Unbeknownst to him, Maurice, Rocket, and Luca are
following him. Caesar tells them that he should
fight alone and that he may not make it back
alive. But the apes insist that Caesar needs
their help and they will make sure not to let him
die, so the four apes embark on their journey.
On the way, the apes find an abandoned village
and explore the place. They then find a human who
is gathering firewood. The human hastily picks
up his gun to shoot, but before he could fire,
Caesar shoots him. Suddenly, a noise breaks out
from one of the houses. The apes aggressively
enter the house, expecting another hostile, but
to their surprise, they find a young girl lying
on her bed. Caesar deems her harmless, so
he commands everyone to search the place and
take what they can. Maurice, however, sees that
something is wrong with the girl and feels sorry,
so he converses with her. Maurice asks Caesar
to bring the girl as she won’t survive alone.
Caesar is hesitant but takes her with them anyway.
The group continues to look for the human
encampment and eventually finds one. They
scout the place from afar with their binoculars,
but instead of finding the Colonel, they see
Winter working with the humans. That night, the
group sneakily finds their way to Winter’s tent,
startling the white ape. Caesar immediately
asks about the Colonel’s whereabouts. Winter
tells Caesar that the Colonel is no longer at the
camp and that he’s making his way at the border to
meet more soldiers coming from the North. Caesar
asks about the border to which Winter is oblivious
about. Winter tells Caesar that after Red Donkey
bargained with him that if he tells them where
Caesar was hiding, the Colonel will spare his
life. Caesar remembers his family and gets
infuriated, telling Winter that his son and wife
died because of what he did. Winter gets nervous
but notices some soldiers outside his tent, so he
attempts to call for help. Caesar and the group
immediately stop Winter before he could make a
sound. They were able to prevent the soldiers
from suspecting, but Caesar accidentally chokes
Winter and kills him while holding Winter down.
Later that night, Caesar thinks about what he
did and feels guilty. His guilt drives him to
see Koba’s ghost amidst the camp, reminding him
that apes don’t kill each other. Maurice tells
Caesar that the soldiers are leaving, so the group
follows them. On a snowy mountainous place, the
group finds the soldiers stopping for some reason.
Suddenly, they hear gunshots. As they hide,
the gunshots continue, and the group wonders where
they were shooting at. When the soldiers leave and
the blizzard stops, the group examines the place
and finds dead bodies barely buried in the snow.
They examine the bodies, removing the sackcloth
covering the heads, and finds one of the bodies
still alive but in great agony. Caesar tries to
ask why he has been shot, but the man can’t speak.
Caesar then looks back at the young girl
and realizes that they are the same.
Feeling pity for the man’s hopeless
state, Caesar ends his suffering.
The group loses track of the soldiers, so they try
scouting the area from a tower. At the same time,
a thief wearing a jacket approaches one of the
horses. The girl is distracted by her toy, so the
thief tries to steal their belongings. Luca looks
down and sees the thief, and lets out a massive
roar. The thief steals the horse and makes a run
for it. The group immediately makes chase, but
the thief is faster. The chase eventually stops
when the thief leaves his horse at an abandoned
mansion. The group catches up with the thief who
has surrendered and shows himself to be an ape.
The ape introduces himself as Bad Ape but he
doesn’t understand the apes’ sign language.
Bad Ape tells his story, telling them that he
is from the zoo where Caesar was once from.
Bad Ape tells them that the other apes died a long
time ago and that he is the only one who survived.
Bad Ape is happy that he is not alone and thus
gives them food to celebrate. Caesar looks at the
food and asks Bad Ape where it is from. Bad Ape
replies that he found them from the border where
the soldiers are. Caesar insists that Bad Ape take
them there, but Bad Ape refuses due to his fear.
The group stays for the night. Bad
Ape asks Caesar about the girl.
Caesar replies that the girl has no
one but them. Bad Ape tells Caesar
that he looks sad and asks him if he
has children. Caesar tells him about
his family. Bad Ape sympathizes and tells
him that he also has a child at the border.
Bad Ape makes a deal with Caesar. If they help him
find his child, he will take them to the border.
The next morning the group leaves
for the border with Bad Ape’s guide.
When they arrive, Caesar commands Luca that they
scout the place from a closer distance. But while
they are scouting, patrolling humans spot them.
Luca pushes Caesar away and kills one of them.
The other human threatens to kill Caesar,
but Rocket immediately comes to the rescue.
Luca is fatally injured from the fight and the
group retreats to a safer place. They grieve for
Luca as he draws his final breaths. Maurice now
pleads to Caesar that he should stop his quest
and join the other apes. Rocket objects and
insists on avenging Luca. Maurice then frankly
tells Caesar that he is becoming more like Koba.
Caesar is furious and tells them to join the other
apes and goes to the encampment alone.
Caesar makes his way to the encampment.
Along the way, he finds some of his apes
killed and their bodies tied to a stake.
Caesar hurries towards the edge to see the
encampment, and to his despair, his entire
civilization is already imprisoned there. One
of the apes behind him is still alive, so he
immediately frees him and asks him what happened.
The ape tells him that they were ambushed, but the
Colonel didn’t kill them and instead turned them
into slaves. Before the ape could finish talking,
he dies. Suddenly, Red Donkey hits Caesar
from behind the head and knocks him out.
When Caesar wakes up, he finds himself inside the
encampment with the Colonel. The Colonel tells him
that he’s curious why Caesar isn’t with the tribe
and asks him if he has come to save his apes.
Caesar replies that he came to kill him. The
Colonel then asks him who he killed that night
and Caesar answers. The Colonel tells him that
he meant to come there to kill him and apologizes
for his loss. He then asks Caesar how he found
him, to which Caesar answers that someone told
him and that more soldiers are coming from
the North to join him wipe out the apes.
The Colonel somewhat disregards the matter,
and they take Caesar outside and puts him in
one of the cages. There are two cages, one
for the adult and one for the younglings.
Caesar sees his son Cornelius calling
to him from the younglings’ cage.
Caesar, at the sight of the apes, rethinks
everything and regrets his actions.
When morning comes, the soldiers open the cages,
and the enemy apes start lashing the prisoned apes
forcing them to do their slave work. It turns out
that the apes were forced to build a wall. Caesar
wonders why the humans need a wall and starts
observing the area and sees defense turrets
on the walls. One of the apes tells him that the
tribe is starving and they haven’t been given food
or water for days. While this is going on, one of
the weakened apes gets into an accident and causes
a scene. The soldier commands Red Donkey to punish
the ape, and he proceeds to lash him with a whip.
Caesar commands Red Donkey to stop. The apes
revolt with Caesar and they start raising their
voices against the soldiers. The Colonel then
commands one of his soldiers and Red Donkey to
bring Caesar. They force Caesar to kneel, and Red
Donkey starts lashing him in front of the Colonel.
When the lashing stops, the Colonel tells
Caesar to command his apes back to work.
Caesar refuses and tells him they need food and
water. The Colonel then shoots the weakened ape,
points the gun at Caesar, and starts a countdown,
pressuring the infuriated ape to obey him.
Seeing the standoff, one of the apes initiates
the work and the rest of the apes follow.
This stops the Colonel, but he commands
Red Donkey to string Caesar in a stake.
While this is happening, Maurice and
the group are watching from a distance.
They see the state of the apes
and plan for a way to save them.
Later that night, Red Donkey releases Caesar
from the strings and tells him that the Colonel
wants to see him. At the command center, the
Colonel warns Caesar that if he dares interrupts
the work again, he will kill his tribe one by
one. Caesar continues to demand food and water,
or else they won’t finish the work. The Colonel
reminds him who’s in charge. Caesar then tells
the Colonel about his observations, that the
army’s coming from the North aren’t allies but are
against the Colonel. The Colonel is surprised and
impressed at Caesar’s perception and intelligence.
The Colonel explains that they are fighting
because the apes will eventually outclass the
humans, for it is the law of nature. He then
explains to Caesar that the virus that almost
wiped them out has mutated and started taking
away their ability to speak or think properly.
It started with the Colonel’s son, whom he had
to kill with his own hands to protect the rest
of humanity. After that, the Colonel ruthlessly
purged everyone who had the infection, prompting
armies from the North to stop them. The Colonel
makes his purpose clear, to prevent the apes
from dominating the planet, so he tells Caesar
that he is glad that he killed Caesar’s kin.
Caesar immediately lunges at him, but
Red Donkey and Preacher stops him.
The Colonel stands backs to his feet and
tells Caesar that he is too irrational.
That same night, Maurice and the group position
themselves closer to the camp to get a better
look. Maurice and Rocket are looking for ways to
go in, but Bad Ape insists that they shouldn’t.
They hear some soldiers coming, so the group
retreats to a safer spot, where Bad Ape
accidentally falls to a tunnel. The next morning,
the soldiers finally distribute food and water to
the apes except for Caesar, who is still tied to
a stake. Maurice and the group search the tunnel,
and they find a soft spot where they could easily
dig out a path that leads directly inside the
camp. Bad Ape and the young girl heads back out,
and they both see Caesar in agony. The young girl
is worried about Caesar, so she heads over to
the camp despite Bad Ape trying to stop her.
Caesar is freezing and starts to hallucinate about
Koba again. Koba tells Caesar to give up and join
him. Caesar then realizes that Red Donkey is
in front of him while he is hallucinating.
Red Donkey releases Caesar under the Colonel’s
commands, forcing him to work. While Caesar is
sleeping in his cage, the young girl makes her
way in undetected and hands Caesar her doll.
She then proceeds to aid him with the help
of the rest of the apes, giving him water to
drink and food to eat. The apes then show their
determination to persevere and remind Caesar that
they are strong together. Suddenly, soldiers are
approaching the cages, endangering the young girl.
Maurice and the group see this, so Rocket enters
the camp and makes a scene to distract the
soldiers from the girl. The soldiers immediately
surround Rocket, and Red Donkey approaches him.
Rocket then tackles Red Donkey, and the two
beat each other until the Colonel stops them.
The Colonel is now suspicious of
other apes who might still be outside,
so he orders a patrol and puts Rocket in the
pen. Red Donkey beats Rocket some more before
leaving. Rocket then gets up, determined,
and tells Caesar to prepare for an escape.
The next morning, the Colonel releases Caesar
from his cage to work, but he finds the doll
the girl gave Caesar. The Colonel wonders what
the doll is and how it got there but dismisses
Caesar for work. Rocket and Caesar work together
to count the steps that lead towards the pens,
and they communicate with Maurice
and Bad Ape by sign language.
Maurice and Bad Ape immediately head back
to the tunnel and start tracing the steps.
That night, the apes head back to the pen,
and Red Donkey chains Caesar back to his cage.
Red Donkey tells Caesar that the Colonel
will kill the apes once the war is over.
Caesar replies that the Colonel will not
win. He then intimidates Red Donkey by
telling him that he too will not survive. Red
Donkey is speechless and leaves. Meanwhile,
the young girl who was watching the apes hurries
to Maurice to notify him that the apes are back
on their pens. Maurice commends her and shows
his gratitude by telling her that she is brave.
Maurice then gives her the name Nova to which
she happily accepts. Bad Ape finishes digging
the soft ground above, and they sneakily check
on the pen. When the soldiers leave the pen, the
apes immediately meet Bad Ape to thank him, and he
proceeds to introduce himself. Maurice, however,
notices that the tunnel is flooding, making them
unable to dig towards the younglings. They inform
Caesar, and Caesar immediately improvises. The
apes taunt the watchman by throwing mud at him,
prompting him to enter the pen by himself and
threatening the apes. Rocket continues throwing
mud at the soldier, baiting him to their pitfall
trap and relieving him of his keys and gun.
Rocket and Caesar sneakily make their way to the
younglings, where Caesar reunites with Cornelius.
They then guide the younglings to the main pen,
and the apes begin escaping through the tunnel.
Caesar, however, stays behind to
settle his score with the Colonel.
Suddenly, the armies from the North arrive and
attack the base. The soldiers immediately prepare
to defend themselves. Preacher, however, notices
that the apes are gone and the pens were empty.
Outside the camp, the firing slows down the
apes’ escape as the enemy jets bombard the walls.
Caesar finds himself in the command room and
sees the Colonel in his bed. Caesar picks up a
gun and is about to shoot the Colonel. But to
his surprise, the Colonel is infected and is
unable to speak. He sees the doll and realizes
what happened. The Colonel then pulls Caesar’s
hand and points the gun to himself, wanting to
die. This pressures Caesar, wanting to pull the
trigger to exact revenge, but in the end, Caesar
couldn’t do it, so he puts the gun down and feels
sorry for the poor Colonel. The agonizing Colonel
then reaches for the gun and shoots himself.
War continues to rage outside when one of
the soldiers in the frontline alongside Red
Donkey spots the escaping apes. They shoot them
down, killing a number of them. Caesar heads
out and sees this, taking a pack of grenades
with him and jumping out. On the frontline,
Red Donkey starts to realize what he’s done and
feels sorry for the apes. A soldier commands the
donkey to grab a grenade launcher, and while doing
so, he sees Caesar running towards them. Caesar
is about to throw a grenade at a gas tank when
suddenly he gets shot with an arrow by Preacher.
Caesar is pinned down, and Preacher is about
to deal the final blow, but he explodes.
It turns out that Red Donkey used the grenade
launcher at Preacher. The soldiers immediately
shoot Red Donkey then immediately fires at Caesar.
Caesar dodges the bullets while reaching for the
grenades. He successfully throws the grenade
at the tanks, blowing the entire place up.
Caesar manages to escape through the tunnel.
He finds his way outside and sees the northern
soldiers arriving at the camp, celebrating
their victory. The explosion, however,
causes a massive avalanche. This forces the apes
to climb on tall trees to avoid the avalanche.
The humans are wiped out before they could
run. Caesar hastily runs towards a tree,
and he survives along with the rest of the apes.
The war finally ends, and the apes travel
peacefully towards their new home and finally
arrive at a beautiful savanna. The apes’
celebration is cut short when they realize
that Caesar’s wound did not recover, causing him
to lose a lot of blood throughout the journey.
Maurice notices this, but Caesar
tells Maurice not to worry.
Caesar further tells him that they are finally at
peace and can go on even without his leadership.
Maurice starts tearing up and speaks for the
first time, reassuring Caesar that he will
preserve his legacy for his son. Caesar smiles
and looks at his tribe once more before drawing
his last breath and finally rests, knowing
that his tribe, the apes, are finally safe.